Eyes glare: "Eyeball-to-eyeball" confrontation. Both individuals rarely lose eye contact with each other, since this would signal defeat or fear by the person looking away.
Eye contact deflect: People that do not look at us while either lsitening or talking are trying to hide something.
Eye contact: People look at each other between 30 to 60 percent of the time. Also neted that when two individuals while talking look at each other more than 60 percent of the time, they probably are more interested in the other person than in what they are saying. Also note that abstract thinkers tend to have more eye contact than those who think in concrete terms, because they are less distracted by eye contact and have a greater ability to integrate incoming data.
Change eye glare: When asked a question or when reacting to a statement that makes someone feel defensive, aggressive, or hostile, their eye contact increases dramatically. Sometimes you can see the pupils of the person dilate.
Gaze aversion: When people are asked questions that make them feel uncomfortable or guilty.
Timing of eye contact: When they listen, people tend to do more eye contact than when they are talking.
Note on shyness: Some individuals, due to their shyness, tend to avoid eye contact or at least minimize it if at all possible. These persons could possibly be the most honest, sincere, and dedicated individuals around. However, every time they fail to look at the other person, they are unintentionally communicating doubt and possible prevarication. US Customs: the agent asks you a question answered on a form and looks to see for direct eye contact to know if you are telling the truth.
Giving someone the eye: Eye contact that indicates interest, however brief the glance may be. Certain repetitions usually.
Sidelong glance: Used by secretive persons who want to see but not be caught at it.
Lowered eyelids: Lids are lowered not to hide the eyes but to concentrate the glance on interesting object.
Displeasure/confusion: Shown by frown.
Envy/disbelief: Raised eyebrow.
Antagonism: Through tightening of jaw muscles or squinting of the eyes.
Sideways glance: It confirms the gesture we associate with a distrusting attitude. Body pointing towards the exit.
The blank stare: Indicator of boredom. Looking at person speaking but not listening.