Foreharms grasp: Grasping of forearms instead of a handshake. Signifies a gesture of welcome, the palms interlocking signify openness and the touching signifies oneness.
Handshake countrywise: They all have their particularity.
Typical male handshake: Originated in contests of strength.
Clammy handshake: Perspiring palms indicate nervousness.
Flaccid or dead fish handshake: Very little pressure, as handshaking with a dead fish.
Expressing sympathy (women): Holding hands to express sympathy and concern.
Politician handshake: Two hands holding the other person's hand.
Putting hands in front of mouth: Astonishment. Shows self-doubt or downright lying.
Open hands signaling sincerity: Eye contact with posture towards front
What do you want me to do: Elbows pushed back, open hands, confusion.
Hiding hands behind back or pockets: Feeling guilty or suspicious about a situation.
Unbuttoning coat: Shows openess and friendliness when done in presence of someone else. No deal can be reached as long as the person does not remove his coat.
Pinching hands/nails biting: Conveys one's anxieties, inner conflicts, or apprehension.
Clenching fists: is never a good sign.
Palm to back of neck: Defensive beating posture. Girls put their hand in their hair to communicate this.
Steepling: Shows confidence, but probably smug, pontifical, egotistic, or proud gestured people.
Tugging at ear/ Lip suppressors: Represents that the person wants to interrupt. Lip suppressors means people put their hand in front of their mouth to interrupt the person.
Head in hand: Signals boredom
Hands to chest: Richly endorseour spoken language. Communicates loyalty, honesty and devotion.
Touching gestures: To interrupt or emphasize a point. Can be used as a calming gesture. Used for affection, but also can be used to satisfy the need for reassurance.
Hand rubbing: gesture of expectation (good one).
Hand rubbing as a palm-sweat-removal gesture: Person is under stress.
Fingers crossed: Just told a lie and other person did not see it, or for good luck.
Thumb under belt: Showing everything is under control.