If verbal statements are consistent with emotions and attitudes revealed through gestures, they are probably telling the truth.
Lying on the back and exposing the throat is the attitude and the signal of submission among wolves and other canines.
Pausing for thought gesture: Doing anything that will let the other person time to think before giving an answer. Such as putting earpiece of glasses in the mouth, or cleaning glasses, or drinking water.
Removing glasses quickly and throwing them on table: Showing resistance.
Hands on hips: High achiever does that. Communicates his dedication to a goal. Also hitching up trousers.
Sit-down readiness: Hand on leg, another supported by the leg. 
Showdown: Persons lunges front on table, hands spread on the table. Very bad sign, about to get angry. However, if moving in and speaking confidentially, means aggressive readiness, which can be seen as domination.
Reassurance movements: Chewing on a pen, touching a necklace, placing glasses, etc. Many variations.
Frustration: Hair- back of the neck rubbing. Short breaths, movements with inhale/exhale.
Confidence: A confident person is likely to talk without hand-to-face gestures.
Leaning against/Holding hands/put arm around waist: Shows ownership or belonging
Nervousness: Clearing throat
Fidgeting in chair: In stressful situations. They continue until they feel comfortable with situations.
Jingling money in pockets: Made by people concerned with money or the lack of it.
Drumming on table/Tapping with feet: Shows impatience.
People in high courtship readiness are often unaware of it, and, conversely, subjects who think they are very active sexually often do not evidence courtship readiness at all. Courtship readiness is most clearly evidenced by a state of high muscle tone.
The gestures women use to express their interest in others vary. The most common are smoothing or arranging their hair; smoothing their dresses; turning around and looking at themselves in mirrors or glancing sideways to see their reflection. Others are a subtle rolling of the pelvic section; slow crossing and uncrossing of the legs in front of a male; and caressing the inside of the calf, knee, or thigh. The delicate balancing of a shoe on the toe of one of the feet tells a man that she feels comfortable in his presence. Also some women will communicate their comfort in another's presence by sitting with one leg tucked under them. All of these gestures communicate a desire for involvment with another person. These gestures with direct eye contact equals definitive interest.
The gestures men use to express their interest is straightening their ties, adjust cuff links, button and straighten their coats, pull up their socks when they sit down, check their fingernails, perform a cursory personal inspection of themselves before allowing an audience or person to see them.
In a group, married women rather than unmarried tend to pair off with another woman, and unmarried women tend to pair off with men.
Generally, a married or single couple who are not on the best terms do not each other very often, and when one does the other responds by quickly withdrawing the hand or arm touched. That is because touching shows rights of possession and is a gesture of assurance or reassurance.
Invitations for courtship are flirtatious glances, gaze-holding, demure gestures, head-cocking, and rolling of the pelvis. Also, slight exposure of the thigh, placing a hand on the hip and exhibiting the wrist or palm, protruding the breast, and slow stroking motions of the fingers on the thigh or wrist.
By not sharing eye contact, two people are communicating a lack of interest in each other, and if they do know each other, they share an uneasy feeling about the situation.
Preoccupation: Looking down, foot crossed over, arms crossed.
On the telephone: We stand up when making decisions, when surprised or shocked, when restless and bored with the conversation.
If a woman has her legs crossed and her hands posing on her upper knee, she is communicating that she is interested.